1.what is ansible?
A.Ansible is the simplest way to automate apps and IT infrastructure.
 Application Deployment + Configuration Management + Continuous Delivery.

2.what is configuration management tool?
A.The Importance of Configuration Management. Configuration management (CM) focuses on establishing and maintaining consistency of a product's
 performance, and its functional and physical attributes with its requirements, design, and operational information throughout its life.

3.Is Ansible only a tool for configuration management?
A.chef,puppet,salt and ansible.

4.what are the components of ansible?
A.Ansible components
Inventory. The “inventory” is a configuration file where you define the host information. ...
Playbooks.
Plays. Playbooks contain plays. ...
Tasks. Tasks are actions carried out by playbooks. ...
Roles. A role is the Ansible way of bundling automation content and making it reusable. ...
Handlers. ...
Templates. ...
Variables.

5.how Ansible works?
A.Ansible works by connecting to your nodes and pushing out small programs, 
called "Ansible modules" to them. These programs are written to be resource models of the desired state of the system.
 Ansible then executes these modules (over SSH by default), and removes them when finished.

6.what are the other tools in the market other than Ansible?
A. Ansible, CHEF enterprise version, Octopus, TeamCity etc. These tools provide reliable deployment process and support multiple OS platforms.

7.how ansible is different from chef and puppet?
A.The difference between Ansible and the above configuration management tools 
(Puppet, Chef) is that they probably have a better set of features, 
but Ansible is far simpler than them. ... Powered by Red Hat,
 Ansible Tower enables users to manage and control the multi-tier deployments in a secure manner.

8.what is inventory in ansible?
A.The Ansible inventory file defines the hosts and groups of hosts upon which commands, modules, 
and tasks in a playbook operate. The file can be in one of many formats depending on your Ansible environment and plugins. 
... If necessary, you can also create project-specific inventory files in alternate locations.

9.what are the types of inventories?
A.Generally, inventory types can be grouped into four classifications: raw material, 
work-in-process, finished goods, and MRO goods.

10.what is play &playbook?
A.A Playbook is a list of plays. It can contain a single play, or many.
 A Play is a list of tasks and roles that should be run.
 A Play can also define vars that should be used for that play.

11.Difference between Hosts &groups?
A.Ansible uses a combination of a hosts file and a group_vars directory 
to pull variables per host group and run Ansible plays/tasks against hosts.

12.what is roles?
A.Roles provide a framework for fully independent, or interdependent collections of variables, tasks, files, templates, and modules.
 In Ansible, the role is the primary mechanism for breaking a playbook into multiple files. 
This simplifies writing complex playbooks, and it makes them easier to reuse.

13.how to install a role?
A.ansible-galaxy init <rolename>
ansible-galaxy install username.role_name

14.how to install multiple roles?
A.ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml

15.how to create roles?
A.

16.what is Dynamic inventory & when we use it & for what?
A.Without a dynamic inventory users are forced to maintain host mappings manually which can be tedious 
when you have many hosts that are constantly terminating and provisioning.
 Each time you execute Ansible, it generates a new inventory file based on the output of the dynamic inventory script

The dynamic inventory script can do anything to get the data (call an external API, pull information from a database or file, etc.),
 and Ansible will use it as an inventory source as long as it returns a JSON structure like the one above
 when the script is called with the --list 

17.where is the ansible configuration file located?
A./etc/ansible/ansible.cfg

18.what are the different ways other than ssh by which ansible can connect to remote hosts?
A.By default, Ansible ships with several plugins. The most commonly used are 
the paramiko SSH, native ssh (just called ssh), and local connection types. 
All of these can be used in playbooks and with /usr/bin/ansible to decide how you want to talk to remote machines.

19.what is variable in ansible?
A.Variable in playbooks are very similar to using variables in any programming language.
 It helps you to use and assign a value to a variable and use that anywhere in the playbook. 
One can put conditions around the value of the variables and accordingly use them in the playbook.

20.what are different types of variables?
A.Ansible has 3 main scopes: Global: this is set by config, environment variables and the command line.
 Play: each play and contained structures, vars entries, include_vars, role defaults and vars.
 Host: variables directly associated to a host, like inventory, facts or registered task outputs.

21.how to assign variables in group vars & hosts vars?
A.- name: Install Kafka
  hosts: kafka
  roles: 
    - role: kafka
      kafka_hosts: "{{ groups['kafka'] | list }}"
      kafka_zookeeper_hosts: "{{ groups['zookeeper'] | list }}"

  kafka_hosts: 
    - 192.168.48.1
    - 192.168.48.2
    - 192.168.48.3
  kafka_zookeeper_hosts: 
    - 192.168.48.4
    - 192.168.48.5
    - 192.168.48.6

22.difference between file & template directory in roles?
A.Most directories contain a main.yml file; Ansible uses each of those files as the entry point for reading 
the contents of the directory (except for files, templates, and test). You have the freedom to branch your tasks and variables 
into other files within each directory.

23.difference between default & vars directory in Roles?
A.Role default variables allow you to set default variables for included or dependent roles (see below). 
To create defaults, simply add a defaults/main.yml file in your role directory. 
These variables will have the lowest priority of any variables available, and can be easily overridden by 
any other variable, including inventory variables.

24.what is jinja2 template?
A.Jinja2 is a modern day templating language for Python developers. It was made after Django's template.
 It is used to create HTML, XML or other markup formats that are returned to the user via an HTTP request.

25.what is modules in ansible?
A.Ansible ships with a number of modules (called the 'module library') that can be executed directly on remote hosts or through Playbooks.
 Users can also write their own modules. These modules can control system resources,
 like services, packages, or files (anything really), or handle executing system commands.

26.difference between COPY & FILE modules?
A.Ansible provides the basic functionality of copying files and directories through the copy and fetch modules. 
You can use the copy module to copy files and folders from the local server to the remote servers, 
between remote servers(only files), change the permission of the files, etc

27.difference between SHELL & COMMAND modules?
A.In the most use cases both modules lead to the same goal. Here are the main differences between these modules. 
With the Command module the command will be executed without being proceeded through a shell.

COMMAND:With the Command module the command will be executed without being proceeded through a shell. 
As a consequence some variables like $HOME are not available. 
And also stream operations like  <, >, | and & will not work.

SHELL:The Shell module runs a command through a shell, by default /bin/sh. 
This can be changed with the option executable. Piping and redirection are here therefor available.
The command module is more secure, because it will not be affected by the user’s environment.

28.what is setup module? what it does?
A.Ansible – “setup” module is responsible to gather facts of the remote hosts. The system facts
 are nothing but the system configuration which includes the hostname, IP address, filesystems, 
OS releases, Users, Network parameters, CPU, memory and many more

29.what is register and debug in Ansible?
A.Ansible registers are used when you want to capture the output of a task to a variable.
 You can then use the value of these registers for different scenarios like a conditional statement,
 logging etc. ... The common return values are documented in Ansible docs.

REGISTER IN ANSIBLE:
A. ansible register module is used to capture or store the output of the command or task.
 By using the register module, you can store that output into any variable.

DEBUG inAnsible:
The debug module is well known. It is the Ansible equivalent to a print line in 
Python code that you add now and then to see some variable values when debugging your scripts

30.can we disable automatic facts gathering in Ansible?
A:gather_facts: no

31.how error handling can be done in ansible?
A.Error Handling In Playbooks. Ansible normally has defaults that make sure to check 
the return codes of commands and modules and it fails fast – forcing an error to be dealt with unless you decide otherwise.
 ... Sometimes a command might not always need to report that it 'changed' the remote system.

32.how to ignore failed commands inansible?
A.- name: This task sometimes fails
  shell: fail_me!
  ignore_errors: "{{ when_errno32 }}"

 I have a playbook to clean up resources, and I want the playbook to ignore every error and
 keep going on till the end , and then fail at the end if there were errors

ignore_errors: yes

- name: this command prints FAILED when it fails
  command: /usr/bin/example-command -x -y -z
  register: command_result
  ignore_errors: True

- name: fail the play if the previous command did not succeed
  fail: msg="the command failed"
  when: "'FAILED' in command_result.stderr"

33.what is Handlers? why we use handlers in ansible?
A.Handlers can be used for things other than service restarts, but service restarts are the most common usage. 
A host is simply a remote machine that Ansible manages.
 They can have individual variables assigned to them, and can also be organized in groups.

34.what is privilege Escalation in Ansible?
A.Ansible can use existing privilege escalation systems to allow a user to
 execute tasks as another. Topics. Become (Privilege Escalation).

Ansible allows you to ‘become’ another user, different from the user that
 logged into the machine (remote user). This is done using existing privilege escalation tools, 
which you probably already use or have configured, like sudo, su, pfexec, doas, pbrun, dzdo, ksu, and others.


35.task to connect (SSH) Ansiable to remote host using another user &Run the playbook to the remote host
using with another user?
A.

36.what is ansible vault?
A.Ansible Vault is a feature of ansible that allows you to keep sensitive data such as passwords or 
keys in encrypted files, rather than as plaintext in playbooks or roles. ... Alternately, 
you may specify the location of a password file or command Ansible to always prompt for the password in your ansible.cfg file.

37.how to decrypt a vaulit file?
A.Vault-Decrypt. 
Vault Decrypt is was created as a simple program which can be used to recover original data
 from the files encrypted by the NQ Vault app.

$ansible-vault decrypt

38.how to encrypt a string in ansible using ansible vault?
A.Use encrypt_string to create encrypted variables to embed in yaml. The ansible-vault encrypt_string 
command will encrypt and format a provided string into a format that can be included in ansible-playbook YAML files.

$ansible-vault encrypt <file name.yml>
$ansible-vault encrypt foo.yml bar.yml baz.yml

39.how to decrypt a stringin ansible vault?
A.If you have existing files that you no longer want to keep encrypted, you can permanently decrypt them by running 
the ansible-vault decrypt command. This command will save them unencrypted to the disk, so be sure you do not 
want ansible-vault edit instead:

$ansible-vault decrypt foo.yml bar.yml baz.yml

40.what is ansible galaxy?
A.Ansible Galaxy refers to the Galaxy website where 
users can share roles, and to a command line tool for installing, creating and managing roles.

41.what are the ansible tags?
A.Adding a tag to a play or task says that if ansible is invoked with --tags=x,y,z , that the tagged play or 
task will only be executed if at least one of its tags is included in the list of tags from the command line.

42.why ansible tags are used?
A.Ansible: Execute task only when a tag is specified.
 Ansible tags can be used to run only a subset of tasks/roles. 
This means that by default all tasks are executed and we can only prevent some tasks to execute.

43.what is lookup in ansible playbook?
A.Lookup plugins allow Ansible to access data from outside sources. 
... Lookups are an Ansible-specific extension to the Jinja2 templating language.
 Lookups are executed with a working directory relative to the role or play, as opposed to local tasks,
 which are executed relative the executed script.

44.how to control the command failure in ansible?
A.- name: this command prints FAILED when it fails
  command: /usr/bin/example-command -x -y -z
  register: command_result
  ignore_errors: True

- name: fail the play if the previous command did not succeed
  fail:
    msg: "the command failed"
  when: "'FAILED' in command_result.stderr"


45.how to debug your playbook?
A.Ansible includes a debugger as part of the strategy plugins. This debugger enables you to debug as task. 
You have access to all of the features of the debugger in the context of the task.
 You can then, for example, check or set the value of variables, 
update module arguments, and re-run the task with the new variables and arguments to help resolve the cause of the failure.

- name: Execute a command
  command: false
  debugger: on_failed


- name: Play
  hosts: all
  debugger: on_skipped
  tasks:
    - name: Execute a command
      command: true
      when: False



46.what is diff mode?
A.I am trying to one simple task which is find out the difference between the two files and store it in notepad.
 I am not able to do it with command as well as shell. Please suggest where i am going wrong-

---
- hosts: myserver
  tasks:
   - name: get the difference
     command: diff hosts.new hosts.mod
     register: diff
   - debug: var=diff.cmd


47.what is dry run in ansible &how to do that?
A. Normally, that command executes when you run ansible normally,
 and doesn’t execute at all when you run ansible in check mode.
But a lot of commands, like rsync have a -n or --dry-run argument that shows
 what would be done, without actually making any changes.

Let’s start with a simple playbook that copies some files with rsync:

- name: Copy files
  tasks:
    - name: rsync the files
      command: >-
        rsync
        -avi
        /tmp/source/
        /tmp/destination/
  hosts: localhost
  become: no
  gather_facts: no


48.what is pre task & posttask?
A.We would like to print status messages before and after we begin applying Nginx.
 Let's add it to our www.yml playbook with the pre_tasks and post_tasks parameters:

---
- hosts: www
  remote_user: vagrant
  sudo: yes
  pre_tasks:
     - shell: echo 'I":" Beginning to configure web server..'
  roles:
     - nginx
  post_tasks:
     - shell: echo 'I":" Done configuring nginx web server...'




49.how can run your all tasks at once?
A.Consider next scenario: multiple hosts needs to be configured independently.
 At some point in time, after ALL configuration tasks on ALL hosts been completed successfully, 
some final tasks needs to be run on ONLY ONE host. what would be the proper solution for ansible playbook ?

---
- hosts: all
  tasks:
    - command: echo preparing stuff on all hosts
    - command: echo run only on single host
      run_once: True


50.what is block in ansible?
A.Blocks allow you to group related tasks together and apply particular task parameters on the block level.
 They also allow you to handle errors inside the blocks in a way similar to most programming languages' exception handling.

Block example:
 tasks:
   - name: Install Apache
     block:
       - yum:
           name: "{{ item }}"
           state: installed
         with_items:
           - httpd
           - memcached
       - template:
           src: templates/src.j2
           dest: /etc/foo.conf
       - service:
           name: bar
           state: started
           enabled: True
     when: ansible_facts['distribution'] == 'CentOS'
     become: true
     become_user: root


51what are different variable scopes?
A.Variable Scopes¶ Ansible has 3 main scopes: Global: this is set by config, environment variables and the command line. 
Play: each play and contained structures, vars entries, include_vars, role defaults and vars.


Global: this is set by config, environment variables and the command line
Play: each play and contained structures, vars entries, include_vars, role defaults and vars.
Host: variables directly associated to a host, like inventory, facts or registered task outputs


52.how variable precedence takes place?

53.difference between include & import?
A.The main difference is: All import* statements are pre-processed at the time playbooks are parsed.
 All include* statements are processed as they encountered during the execution of the playbook.
 Imports are static, includes are dynamic.

include_tasks: Includes a file with a list of tasks to be executed in the current playbook.
import_tasks: Imports a list of tasks to be added to the current playbook for subsequent execution.

54.how to include custom modules in ansible?
A.To save a local module or plugin so Ansible can find and use it, drop the module or plugin in the correct “magic” directory.
 For local modules, use the name of the file as the module name: for example, 
if the module file is ~/.ansible/plugins/modules/local_users.py, use local_users as the module name.


55.describe the role directory structure?
A.defaults-->main.yml
  files
  handlers-->main.yml
  meta--->main.yml
  Readme.md
  Tasks-->main.yml
  templates
  tests--->inventory-->test.yml
  vars-->main.yml



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



