1.what is Git?
A.Git is a distrubuted version control system, Every dev has a working copy of the code and full change history on their local machine.

2.what is difference between git and github?
A.git is a revision control sytem, a tool to manage your source code history.
GitHUb is a hosting service for Git repositories
Git is the tool,
GitHub is the service for projects that use Git.


3.why we use Git?
A.Git makes it easy. Git simplifies the process of working with other people and makes it easy to collaborate on projects.
 Team members can work on files and easily merge their changes in with the master branch of the project.
 This allows multiple people to work on the same files at the same time.

4.what is SCM and VCS?
A. Version Control System (VCS), also known as Source Control Management (SCM),
 is a way to manage and document changes developers make to software code.

5.what is git reset and revert?
A.git revert can only be run at a commit level scope and has no file level functionality. 
A reset is an operation that takes a specified commit and resets the "three trees" to match the state of the repository at that specified commit. 
A reset can be invoked in three different modes which correspond to the three trees.


6.what are process of pushing the code to github repository?
A.Git init-->Git add file name -->git commit -m "hello"-->git remote add origin <url>-->git push origin.


7.what are the commands of Git to push  the code?
A.git push -u(--set-upstream), --all, -f (--force).

8.how you can merge a git repository with another?
A.take two repositories A and B, repositories B merge wuth A.
step1:local machine-->git clone A repositories Url
step2:git fetch B(repositoryname)
step3:check-->git remote -v  ---two repositories.
step4:create branch of B resotories-->git checkout -b B B/master
step5:enter into B branch-->git checkout B
step6:make directory any name -->move all files of branch B into directory.
step7:go to master branch -->git checkout master-->then -->git merge Bbranch.
step8:git commmit-m "hk"-->git push origin master.


9.what is branching in git?
A.A branch in Git is simply a lightweight movable pointer to one of these commits. 
The default branch name in Git is master. As you initially make commits, 
you're given a master branch that points to the last commit you made. ... Multiple branches pointing into the commit's data history.

10.Different types of branching in Git?
A.Branches on Local Machine. 
1- Local branch can split into two types of branches: non-tracking local branch and local tracking branch. ...
Branches on Remote machine. 
Remote branch is a branch located on a remote machine or server. ...


11.what is merge conflict in git?
A.How a Merge Conflict Occurs. In Git, "merging" is the act of integrating another branch into your current working branch. 
You're taking changes from another context (that's what a branch effectively is: a context) and combine them with your current working files.

12.how you can resolve merge conflict if you are merging same project and in the same branch?
A. if you edited a file, such as README.md, and another person removed the same file in another branch in the same Git repository, 
you'll get a merge conflict error when you try to merge these branches. 
You must resolve this merge conflict with a new commit before you can merge these branches.























