1.what is jenkins?
A.Continuous Integration is the most important part of DevOps that is used to integrate various DevOps stages. 
... Jenkins is an open source automation tool written in Java with plugins built for Continuous Integration purpose. 
... Jenkins achieves Continuous Integration with the help of ...

2.why we use jenkins?
A.Jenkins is an open source automation tool written in Java with plugins built for Continuous Integration purpose. 
Jenkins is used to build and test your software projects continuously making it easier for developers to integrate changes to the project, 
and making it easier for users to obtain a fresh build

3.what are the other tools/technologies present in market other than jenkins foe CI/CD?
A.Jenkins vs. ... integration ,jenkins ,bamboo ,teamcity ,travis ci ,gitlab ,circleci ,codeship 

4.how to move jenkins from one server to another?
A.One option (and seems to be the recommended one) is to just copy the jobs directory from the old server to the new one. 
From the documentation Moving/copying/renaming jobs: You can: Move a job from one installation of Jenkins to 
another by simply copying the corresponding job directory.

5.how to create jenkins backup?
A.Step 1 - Click on Manage Jenkins and choose the 'Manage Plugins' option.
Step 2 - In the available tab, search for 'Backup Plugin'. ...
Step 3 - Now when you go to Manage Jenkins, and scroll down you will see 'Backup Manager' as an option. ...
Step 4 - Click on Setup.

6.what are the pluguns in jenkins?
A.Global Build Stats Plugin,Job GeneratorPlugin,Disable-failed-job,GitHub/GitLab Pull Request Builder,Hudson Extended Read Permission Plugin,
Post+build+task,JDK Parameter Plugin,Job Configuration History Plugin.

7.what are the default pluguins installed in jenkins?
A.git, maven/ant,


8.how to scheduled builds in jenkins?
A.Build periodically ,
Under the job configuration we can define various build triggers.
 Simple find the ‘Build Triggers’ section, and check the ‘ Build Periodically’ checkbox. 
 With the periodically build you can schedule the build definition by the date or day of the week and the time to execute the build.

9.difference between Ant,maven,Gradle?
A.Ant was the first among “modern” build tools. In many aspects it is similar to Make
Maven was released in 2004. Its goal was to improve upon some of the problems developers were facing when using Ant.
Gradle does not use XML. Instead, it had its own DSL based on Groovy (one of JVM languages). As a result, 
Gradle build scripts tend to be much shorter and clearer than those written for Ant or Maven.

10.difference between jenkins,teamcity,bamboo?
A.Bamboo is comparable and in its ease of use, but the UI is not quite as pretty, 
and G2 Crowd ranks TeamCity higher than Bamboo for “Ease of Setup”. 
Jenkins falls short of both TeamCity and Bamboo in this category. 
Jenkins' UI is a little more old school, but the new Blue Ocean interface was a major upgrade

11.how to configure a cloud access in jenkins?
A.Configure the Google Compute Engine plugin with the credentials it uses to provision your agent instances.
In the leftmost menu of the Jenkins UI, select Manage Jenkins.
Click Configure System.
Scroll to the bottom of the page and click Add a new Cloud.
Click Google Compute Engine.

12.what is jenkins slaves?
A.Jenkins Slave. A Slave is a Java executable that runs on a remote machine. 
Following are the characteristics of Jenkins Slaves: It hears requests from the Jenkins Master instance. 
Slaves can run on a variety of operating systems

13.how to run a groovy script in jenkins?
A.first install groovy plugins-->go to jenkins configuration tools--->
To create Groovy-based project, add new free-style project and select "Execute Groovy script" in the Build section,
 select previously configured Groovy installation and then type your command, or specify your script file name.
 In the second case path taken is relatively from the project workspace directory


14.what is jenkins pipeline?
A.Jenkins Pipeline is a combination of plugins that support the integration and implementation of
 continuous delivery pipelines using Jenkins. 
A pipeline has an extensible automation server for creating simple or 
complex delivery pipelines "as code," via pipeline DSL (Domain-specific Language).

15.what are the different types of jenkins pipeline?
A.Declarative versus Scripted pipeline syntax: There are two types of syntax used for defining your JenkinsFile.  
Declarative: Declarative pipeline syntax offers an easy way to create pipelines.
Declarative:

Declarative pipeline syntax offers an easy way to create pipelines. 
It contains a predefined hierarchy to create Jenkins pipelines. 
It gives you the ability to control all aspects of a pipeline execution in a simple, straight-forward manner.

Scripted:

Scripted Jenkins pipeline runs on the Jenkins master with the help of a lightweight executor. 
It uses very few resources to translate the pipeline into atomic commands. 
Both declarative and scripted syntax are different from each other and are defined totally differently.


16.Is jenkins as CI tool or both CI/CD?
A.CI = Continuous Integration is the process where you get the source code of your applications 
and all its dependencies to see if they work properly together. 
In the case if compiled languages (Java, C, C++),
 you compile to see if you can generate the executable. ... Jenkins is the most popular CI/CD server.

17.how to install jenkins with non root access in linux?
A.


18.how to assign roles to users in jenkins?
A.Assign Users to the new Group (Role) After creating the roles (either global role, or project role)
 with appropriate permissions, 
the next step is to assign users to this role. For this, 
go to “Manage Jenkins” -> “Manage and Assign Roles” -> Click on “Assign Roles.

19.How do i make a jenkins file read only?
A.Go to Jenkins -> Manage Jenkins -> Configure Global Security.
Check "Enable security".
Set "Jenkins own user database" as security realm.
Check "Allow users to sign up"
Choose "Matrix based security"
Check "Overall read" on Anonymous.
Add your admin account in the matrix, check every box.

20.if you have 200 employes inyour company, how you can assign jenkins access to 
these employee how you can give permission in jenkins?
























